results/gemini_results/um102/problem5/14431_sol.md, before:

## Theorem: Prove that the points (1, 0, 0) and (-1, 0, 0) on the ellipsoid \( x^{2}+2 y^{2}+3 z^{2}=1 \) have the largest distance from the origin. You may assume that any continuous function on the ellipsoid attains its maximum.


## Proof: **Extracted Text:**

3. Eqn. of ellipsoid :  $x^2 + 2y^2 + 3z^2 = 1$ 
Now we have to maximise the function $\sqrt{x^2 + y^2 + z^2}$ in order to find point for maximum distance.

$f = \sqrt{x^2 + y^2 + z^2}$

From the constraint,

$f = \sqrt{1 - 2y^2 - 3z^2 + y^2 + z^2}$
$ = \sqrt{1-y^2 -2z^2}$

Now, for $f$ to be a maximum,
$\nabla f = 0$
$\implies$ $\frac{\partial f}{\partial y}\hat{j} + \frac{\partial f}{\partial z}\hat{k} = 0$
$\implies$ $\frac{1}{2\sqrt{1-y^2 - 2z^2}}(-2y)\hat{j} + \frac{1}{2\sqrt{1-y^2-2z^2}}(-4z)\hat{k} = 0$
$\implies$ $y = 0$ & $z = 0$ for extremum.

By putting this in constraint equation, 
$x^2 = 1$
$\implies$ $x = \pm 1$

Hence, the extremum points are $(1,0,0)$ & $(-1,0,0)$, i.e. either minimum or maximum on the ellipse. We've to show that they are maxima. 

If we can find a point on ellipsoid whose distance is less than that of $(1,0,0)$ or $(-1,0,0)$, then these points are maxima.

Let, a point on ellipsoid is $(0, 1/\sqrt{2}, 0)$.

Distance $= \sqrt{0 + 1/2 + 0} = 1/\sqrt{2}$

Distance of $(1,0,0)$ & $(-1,0,0)$ from origin $= 1$.

Hence, points $(1,0,0)$ & $(-1,0,0)$ have the largest distance from the origin. 


**Cleaned Mathematical Proof:**

The equation of the ellipsoid is $x^2 + 2y^2 + 3z^2 = 1$. To find the point on the ellipsoid that is furthest from the origin, we must maximize the function $f = \sqrt{x^2 + y^2 + z^2}$, subject to the constraint of the ellipsoid equation. 

From the constraint, we can rewrite the function as $f = \sqrt{1-y^2 -2z^2}$. For $f$ to be a maximum, its gradient must be zero:  $\nabla f = 0$. This implies that  $\frac{\partial f}{\partial y}\hat{j} + \frac{\partial f}{\partial z}\hat{k} = 0$. Evaluating the partial derivatives, we get  $\frac{1}{2\sqrt{1-y^2 - 2z^2}}(-2y)\hat{j} + \frac{1}{2\sqrt{1-y^2-2z^2}}(-4z)\hat{k} = 0$. This equation is satisfied when $y = 0$ and $z = 0$.

Substituting these values into the constraint equation gives us $x^2 = 1$, which implies that $x = \pm 1$. Therefore, the extremum points of the function are $(1,0,0)$ and $(-1,0,0)$. These points could be either minimum or maximum points on the ellipsoid.

To determine whether these points represent maximum distances, we consider another point on the ellipsoid: $(0, 1/\sqrt{2}, 0)$. The distance of this point from the origin is $\sqrt{0 + 1/2 + 0} = 1/\sqrt{2}$. On the other hand, the distance of both $(1,0,0)$ and $(-1,0,0)$ from the origin is $1$.

Therefore, since the points  $(1,0,0)$ and $(-1,0,0)$  have a larger distance from the origin compared to another point on the ellipsoid, these points must represent the maximum distance from the origin.

Commit message:

run with "not so rigorous" intructions

results/gemini_results/um102/problem5/14431_sol.md, after:

## Theorem: Prove that the points (1, 0, 0) and (-1, 0, 0) on the ellipsoid \( x^{2}+2 y^{2}+3 z^{2}=1 \) have the largest distance from the origin. You may assume that any continuous function on the ellipsoid attains its maximum.


## Proof: ## Extracted text with LaTeX:

3. Eqn. of ellipsoid : $x^2 + 2y^2 + 3z^2 = 1$

Now we have to maximise the function $\sqrt{x^2 + y^2 + z^2}$ in order to find point for maximum distance. 

$f = \sqrt{x^2 + y^2 + z^2}$

From the constraint,

$f = \sqrt{1 - 2y^2 - 3z^2 + y^2 + z^2}$
$ = \sqrt{1 - y^2 - 2z^2}$

Now for $f$ to be a maximum,
$\nabla f = 0$

$\implies \frac{\partial f}{\partial y} \hat{j} + \frac{\partial f}{\partial z} \hat{k} = 0$

$\implies \frac{1}{2 \sqrt{1 - y^2 - 2z^2}} (-2y) \hat{j} + \frac{1}{2 \sqrt{1 - y^2 - 2z^2}} (-4z) \hat{k} = 0$

$\implies y = 0$  & $z = 0$ for extremum.

By putting this in constraint equation,

$x^2 = 1$

$\implies x = \pm 1$

Hence the extremum points are $(1, 0, 0)$ & $(-1, 0, 0)$, i.e. either minimum or maximum on the ellipsoid.

We've to show that they are maxima.

If we can find a point on ellipsoid whose distance is less than that of $(1, 0, 0)$ or $(-1, 0, 0)$ then these points are maxima.

Let, a point on ellipsoid is $(0, 1/ \sqrt{2}, 0)$.

Distance $ = \sqrt{0 + 1/2 + 0} = 1/ \sqrt{2}$

Distance of $(1, 0, 0)$ & $(-1, 0, 0)$ from origin $= 1$.

Hence points $(1, 0, 0)$ & $(-1, 0, 0)$ have the largest distance from origin. 


## Cleaned Mathematical Proof:

The equation of the ellipsoid is $x^2 + 2y^2 + 3z^2 = 1$. To find the point on the ellipsoid furthest from the origin, we must maximize the distance function, which is $\sqrt{x^2 + y^2 + z^2}$. Let $f = \sqrt{x^2 + y^2 + z^2}$. From the constraint, we can rewrite $f$ as $f = \sqrt{1 - 2y^2 - 3z^2 + y^2 + z^2} = \sqrt{1 - y^2 - 2z^2}$. For $f$ to be a maximum, its gradient,  $\nabla f$, must be equal to zero. This implies $\frac{\partial f}{\partial y} \hat{j} + \frac{\partial f}{\partial z} \hat{k} = 0$, which expands to $\frac{1}{2 \sqrt{1 - y^2 - 2z^2}} (-2y) \hat{j} + \frac{1}{2 \sqrt{1 - y^2 - 2z^2}} (-4z) \hat{k} = 0$. This gives us $y = 0$  and $z = 0$ for the extremum. Substituting these values into the constraint equation gives $x^2 = 1$, therefore $x = \pm 1$. This means the extremum points are $(1, 0, 0)$ and  $(-1, 0, 0)$. These points could represent either a minimum or maximum distance on the ellipsoid.  

To determine whether these points represent maxima, we need to find a point on the ellipsoid with a smaller distance than  $(1, 0, 0)$ and $(-1, 0, 0)$. Consider the point $(0, 1/ \sqrt{2}, 0)$, which lies on the ellipsoid. Its distance from the origin is $ \sqrt{0 + 1/2 + 0} = 1/ \sqrt{2}$.  The distance of  $(1, 0, 0)$ and $(-1, 0, 0)$ from the origin is 1, which is larger than $1/ \sqrt{2}$. Therefore,  the points $(1, 0, 0)$ and $(-1, 0, 0)$ have the largest distance from the origin.
