## Theorem: Let \( V \) be a vector space over \( \mathbb{R} \). Suppose \( T: V \rightarrow \mathbb{R} \) is a linear transformation such that the null space of \( T \) is finite-dimensional. Show that \( V \) is finite dimensional. Hint. Recall that the dimension of \( \mathbb{R} \) as a vector space over \( \mathbb{R} \) is 1 .


## Proof: Let the null space of $T$ be denoted by $N(T)$ and dimension by nullity.
Let rank space of $T$ be denoted by $R(T)$.

Now, from Rank Nullity theorem we know that $R(T)$ is a subspace of $R$. $R$ is a f.d.v.s over $\mathbb{R}$ with $dim(R) =1$ and hence $R(T)$ is f.d.v.s and $dim(R(T)) \leq dim(R) = 1$, i.e. $dim(R(T)) \leq 1$.
Let $dim(R(T))$ be denoted as $rank T$ / called as rank. 
$\therefore$ $rank = 0$ or $rank = 1$.

Case 1) if $rank = 0$
$\implies dim(R(T)) = 0$
$\implies$ basis of $R(T) = \phi$
$\implies R(T) = span(\phi) = \{ \vec{0} \}$
$\implies$ by definition of range space, $\forall \vec{v} \in V$, $T(\vec{v}) = \vec{0}$, i.e $\forall \vec{v}, V \in N(T)$

but from rank-nullity thm, $N(T)$ is subspace of $V$
$\implies V \subseteq N(T)$
$\therefore N(T) = V$
$\implies N(T)$ is f.d.v.s
$\implies V$ is also f.d.v.s

Case 2) if $rank = 1$
$\implies dim(R(T)) = 1 = dim(R)$
$\implies$ From assignment 12 or 13, p.3. 
' $R(T)$ is Subspace of $R$' and $dim(R(T)) = dim(R)$
$\implies R(T) = R$
i.e, $T$ is surjective.
$\therefore \forall \vec{r} \in R$, $\exists \vec{v} \in V \text{ s.t } T(\vec{v}) = \vec{r}$

Now let nullity be '$n$' and the basis for $N(T)$ be $B_1 = \{ u_1, u_2, ..., u_n\}$
$\therefore dim(R) = span B_1 = N(T)$ and $B_1$ is lin. ind. 
$\therefore R \oplus N(T) = V$
i.e $\forall \vec{v} \in V$, $\exists \vec{r} \in R \text{ s.t } \vec{v} = \vec{r} + \vec{n}$ (if $\vec{v} \in N(T)$ then above statement would be false)
Let $\vec{v_o} \in V \text{ } \backslash span(B_1)$ i.e $\vec{v_o} \not\in span(B_1)$ $\implies$ in particular, it means $\vec{v_o} \not= \vec{0}$
$\because B_1$ is lin. ind. and $\vec{v_o} \not\in span(B_1)$
$\therefore B_2 = B_1 \cup \{\vec{v_o}\}  = \{u_1, u_2, ..., u_n, \vec{v_o}\}$ is lin. ind.  (actually we don't require this in finished proof)
Claim: $span(B_2) = V$
To the contrary say $\exists \vec{v} \in V \text{ } \backslash span(B_2)$ (in particular, it means $\vec{v} \not= \vec{0}$)
Now $\vec{r_1} = T(\vec{v_o}) \not= \vec{0}$     as    : if it was $\vec{0}$ than $\vec{v_o} \in N(T) \subseteq span B_2$                      $\times$
$\because$ we have $T(\vec{v_o}) = \vec{r_o} \not= 0$ and $\vec{r_1} \not= 0$ 
$\therefore T(\vec{v}) - \frac{r_1}{r_o}T(\vec{v_o}) = (\frac{k}{r_o}) \times \frac{r_o}{k}$
$\therefore T(\vec{v}) - T(\frac{k}{r_o}\vec{v_o}) = \vec{0}$
$\implies T(\vec{v} - \frac{k}{r_o}\vec{v_o}) = \vec{0}$
$\implies \vec{v_1} - \frac{k}{r_o}\vec{v_o} \in N(T)$
i.e $\vec{v_1} - \frac{k}{r_o}\vec{v_o} = c_1 u_1 + c_2 u_2 + ... + c_n u_n \in R \text{   s.t   }$ $y = \frac{k}{r_o}$
or $\vec{v_1} = c_1 u_1 + ... + c_n u_n + y\vec{v_o}$
i.e $\vec{v_1} \in span B_2$          $\times$ to claim 
$\therefore$ f.t.o

$\therefore$ Claim is true    i.e    $span(B_2) = V$

$\therefore$ from Claim and $\because$ 
we get $B_2$ is basis of $V$  $\implies span(B_2) = V$

$\therefore B_2$ is finite set

$\therefore V$ is f.d.v.s. 
