## Theorem: Let \( \mathscr{S} \) denote the vector space over \( \mathbb{R} \) of all real sequences (with usual addition and scalar multiplication of sequences). Then prove that the set
\[
W=\left\{\left\{x*{n}\right\}*{n \in \mathbb{N}} \in \mathscr{S}:\left\{x*{n}^{2}\right\}*{n \in \mathbb{N}} \text { is convergent }\right\}
\]
is not a subspace of \( \mathscr{S} \).


## Proof: $O v = f \circ  \dots \circ f$ 
$x_n = f \circ \dots \circ f \implies  x_{n+3} + 5$ is a constant seq. that convgs to zero.

$x_n = Ov \in W \tag{1}$ 

$\{a_n\}$ be a seq. $\implies \{a_n^2\}$ cnvgs
$\{b_n\}$, $\qquad \qquad \qquad \qquad \Downarrow$
                                          $\{b_n^2\}$ cnvgs.

$\{(a_n + b_n)^2\} = \{a_n^2 + b_n^2 + 2a_nb_n\} \begin{cases} \text{limit} \\ \text{laws} \end{cases}$
which may or may not converge?
because $\implies M_2 = \max \{a_n, b_n\} \implies M_2^2 = \max\{a_n^2, b_n^2\}$
$2a_nb_n < b_n^2$ 
$M_n$ converges $\implies$ By Comparison test $\frac{a_n}{b_n} \leqslant 2a_nb_n$
converges 

Closure under addition is violated. $\tag{2}$ 

If $\xi \in \mathbb{R}, \{a_n\} \in \mathbb{F}, \ \exists \{b_n\}$ st. $\{a_n^2\} \notin V$ 

$\{a_n\} \in W \implies \{a_n^2\}$ envgs $\implies \{c^2 a_n^2\}$  cnvgs for any $c \in \mathbb{R}$ 
$\{\{c a_n\}\}$ $\implies \{c^2 a_n^2\} \in W$ 

Scalar multiplication follows closure prop.
from $\oplus, \odot, \otimes$ $W$ is a subspace. 

---

Let $Ov = f \circ \dots \circ f$. Then, $x_n = f \circ \dots \circ f  \implies  x_{n+3} + 5$ is a constant sequence that converges to zero.

$x_n = Ov \in W$. 

Let $\{a_n\}$ and  $\{b_n\}$ be sequences.  $\{a_n^2\}$  and $\{b_n^2\}$ converge.  Consider $\{(a_n + b_n)^2\} = \{a_n^2 + b_n^2 + 2a_nb_n\}$. This may or may not converge.  Note that  $M_2 = \max \{a_n, b_n\} \implies M_2^2 = \max\{a_n^2, b_n^2\}$ and $2a_nb_n < b_n^2$.  Since $M_n$ converges, then by the Comparison test $\frac{a_n}{b_n} \leqslant 2a_nb_n$ converges.

Closure under addition is violated. 

If $\xi \in \mathbb{R}$ and $\{a_n\} \in \mathbb{F}$, then there exists $\{b_n\}$ such that. $\{a_n^2\} \notin V$. 

If $\{a_n\} \in W$, then  $\{a_n^2\}$ converges which implies that  $\{c^2 a_n^2\}$  converges for any $c \in \mathbb{R}$. Hence, $\{\{c a_n\}\}$ implies $\{\{c^2 a_n^2\}\} \in W$.

Scalar multiplication follows the closure property.
From $\oplus, \odot, \otimes$, $W$ is a subspace. 
