## Theorem: Consider the linear differential equation \( \dot{x}=y \) and \( \dot{y}=x). Prove that the origin is saddle.



## Proof: $x' = y$
$y' = x$

$x' = \begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix} x$

Characteristic equation: $\lambda^2 - 1 = 0$

$\lambda^2 = 1$ $\lambda = \pm 1$

Finding eigen vectors:
For $\lambda = 1$
$(A - \lambda I) \begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = 0 \Rightarrow \begin{bmatrix} -1 & 1 \\ 1 & -1 \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = 0$
$\Rightarrow -x+y = 0 \Rightarrow x=y \Rightarrow v_1 = \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix}$ is an eigenvector
For $\lambda = -1$
$(A - \lambda I) \begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = 0 \Rightarrow \begin{bmatrix} 1 & 1 \\ 1 & 1 \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = 0$
$\Rightarrow x = -y \Rightarrow v_2 = \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ -1 \end{bmatrix}$ is an eigenvector.

General solution: $x(t) = c_1 e^t \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix} + c_2 e^{-t} \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ -1 \end{bmatrix}$

This is a saddle as along one eigenvector,
$x \rightarrow 0$ as $t \rightarrow \infty$ and along the other, $x \rightarrow \infty$ as $t \rightarrow \infty$.
For other vectors, the path comes close to the origin and then moves away.


**Rewritten proof:**

Given the system of differential equations $x' = y$ and $y' = x$, we can rewrite it in matrix form as $x' = \begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix} x$.

The characteristic equation of the matrix is $\lambda^2 - 1 = 0$.  Solving for $\lambda$, we get $\lambda^2 = 1$ which gives us eigenvalues of $\lambda = 1$ and $\lambda = -1$.

To find the eigenvectors, we consider each eigenvalue separately. For $\lambda = 1$, we have  $(A - \lambda I) \begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = 0$, which simplifies to $\begin{bmatrix} -1 & 1 \\ 1 & -1 \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = 0$.  This leads to the equation $-x+y = 0$, implying that $x=y$. Thus, we obtain the eigenvector $v_1 = \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix}$.

Similarly, for $\lambda = -1$, we get $(A - \lambda I) \begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = 0$, which becomes $\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 1 \\ 1 & 1 \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = 0$.  This simplifies to $x = -y$, giving us the eigenvector $v_2 = \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ -1 \end{bmatrix}$.

Therefore, the general solution of the system is given by $x(t) = c_1 e^t \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix} + c_2 e^{-t} \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ -1 \end{bmatrix}$.

We can conclude that this system represents a saddle point. Along the eigenvector associated with $\lambda=1$, $x$ approaches 0 as $t$ approaches infinity. On the other hand, along the eigenvector associated with $\lambda=-1$, $x$ approaches infinity as $t$ approaches infinity. For all other vectors, the path initially approaches the origin but eventually moves away from it. 
