## Theorem: Let \( f:[0,1] \rightarrow \mathbb{R} \) be a positive continuous function. Let \( M \) denote the maximum value of \( f \), i.e., \( M=\max \{f(x): x \in[0,1]\} \). Assuming that the limit
\[
\lim _{n \rightarrow \infty}\left(\int_{0}^{1} f(x)^{n} d x\right)^{1 / n}
\]
exists, show that it is equal to \( M \). Hint. Show that the above limit is bounded above and below by \( M \). The bound from above is easier.


## Proof: We have that $0 \leq (f(x))^n \leq M^n \quad \forall x \in [0,1]$.
$\implies 0 \leq (f(x))^n \leq M^n \quad \forall n \in \mathbb{N}, \exists x \in [0,1]$.

Since $(f)^n$ is continuous on $[0,1]$, so is $(f(x))^n$ (by algebra of continuous functions) and
thus $(f(x))^n$ is Riemann integrable on $[0,1]$.
Also, constant functions are step functions, so are also Riemann integrable,
by the comparison rule,
$$
\int_0^1 0 dx = 0 \leq \int_0^1 (f(x))^n dx \leq \int_0^1 M^n dx = M^n(1-0)
$$
(integral of a step function)

$\implies 0 \leq \int_0^1 (f(x))^n dx \leq M^n$
$\implies 0 \leq 0 \leq \int_0^1 (f(x))^ndx \leq (M^n)^{1/n} = M$
$\implies 0 \leq (\int_0^1 (f(x))^n dx)^{1/n} \leq M \quad \forall n \geq 1$.

Let $S = \{(\int_0^1 (f(x))^n dx)^{1/n} : n \in \mathbb{N}\}$.

We know that $\forall x \in S, \quad x \leq M \implies S$ is bounded above.
Also $S$ is non-empty. Then $\sup S$ must exist.

$\implies$ since $\{(\int_0^1 (f(x))^n dx)^{1/n}\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$ is an increasing sequence and is bounded above, it must converge to $\sup S = M$.

Thus $\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} (\int_0^1 (f(x))^ndx)^{1/n} = M$.

Prove that $\{ (\int_0^1 (f(x))^n dx)^{1/n}\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$ is an increasing sequence : 

---

We have that $0 \leq (f(x))^n \leq M^n$ for all $x \in [0,1]$. This implies that $0 \leq (f(x))^n \leq M^n$ for all $n \in \mathbb{N}$ and for some $x \in [0,1]$.

Since $f$ is continuous on $[0,1]$, $(f(x))^n$ is continuous on $[0,1]$ by the algebra of continuous functions. Therefore, $(f(x))^n$ is Riemann integrable on $[0,1]$. Also, constant functions are step functions and are thus Riemann integrable. Therefore, by the comparison rule, 
$$
\int_0^1 0 dx = 0 \leq \int_0^1 (f(x))^n dx \leq \int_0^1 M^n dx = M^n(1-0).
$$
The last integral is the integral of a step function.

This implies that
$$
0 \leq \int_0^1 (f(x))^n dx \leq M^n,
$$
and so
$$
0 \leq 0 \leq \int_0^1 (f(x))^ndx \leq (M^n)^{1/n} = M.
$$
Therefore, 
$$
0 \leq (\int_0^1 (f(x))^n dx)^{1/n} \leq M 
$$
for all $n \geq 1$.

Let 
$$
S = \{(\int_0^1 (f(x))^n dx)^{1/n} : n \in \mathbb{N}\}.
$$
We know that $x \leq M$ for all $x \in S$, which implies that $S$ is bounded above. Also, $S$ is non-empty. Therefore, $\sup S$ must exist.

Since $\{(\int_0^1 (f(x))^n dx)^{1/n}\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$ is an increasing sequence and is bounded above, it must converge to $\sup S = M$. Thus, 
$$
\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} (\int_0^1 (f(x))^ndx)^{1/n} = M.
$$

It remains to prove that $\{ (\int_0^1 (f(x))^n dx)^{1/n}\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$ is an increasing sequence. 
