## Theorem: Let \( A, B \subset \mathbb{R} \) be nonempty sets that are bounded above. Then prove that \( A \cup B \) is nonempty and bounded above, and
\[
\sup (A \cup B)=\max \{\sup A, \sup B\}
\]


## Proof: _Proof_: Let us consider $\emptyset \neq$ non-empty set $A \subseteq \mathbb{R}$ and $B \subseteq$ both $A$ and $B$ are bounded above.

Then $\sup A$ exists, $\ni \sup A \ge a$, $\forall$ $a \in A$.
Similarly, 
$\sup B$ exists, $\ni \sup B \ge b$, $\forall$ $b \in B$.

Now, what $A \cup B = \{x \mid x \in A \vee x \in B \vee x \in A \cap B\}$.

$\max \{ \sup A$,
$\sup B \geq \sup A$
then $\sup A \geq a, \forall a \in A$
$\sup A \geq \sup B \geq b \ \forall b \in B$. 

... $\max \{ \sup A, \sup B \}$ is an upper bound of $A \cup B$. 

To prove it is a $\sup$, we must use the defn. of $\sup$. 

From the previous argument, 
$\max \{ \sup A, \sup B \} \geq x$, $\forall x \in A \cup B$.
Now,
$\ni \exists$ an element we consider $\max \{ \sup A, \sup B \} = \sup A$,
then, $\ni \exists$ any $\varepsilon \leq \sup (A)$, $\forall a \in A \cup B$, then, as not an upper bound. 
and/ as already establishes, 
$\sup B \geq \sup B \gt b \ \forall \ b \in B$. 
... by defn, as $a \in A \cup B$, $\sup A$ is the $\sup (A \cup B)$. 

This argument can again, simply be reversed by switching $A$,$B$. 

... $\sup (A\cup B) = \max \{ \sup A, \sup B \}$

_Hence proved_. 



**Cleaned-up Proof:**

Let us consider non-empty sets $A \subseteq \mathbb{R}$ and $B \subseteq \mathbb{R}$.  Furthermore, assume both $A$ and $B$ are bounded above.  Then $\sup A$ exists, therefore $\sup A \ge a$, for all $a \in A$. 

Similarly, $\sup B$ exists, therefore $\sup B \ge b$, for all $b \in B$.

Now, consider the set $A \cup B = \{x \mid x \in A \vee x \in B \vee x \in A \cap B\}$.  We claim that $\max \{ \sup A, \sup B \}$ is an upper bound of $A \cup B$. Observe that $\sup B \geq \sup A$. It follows that $\sup A \geq a$ for all $a \in A$ and $\sup A \geq \sup B \geq b$ for all $b \in B$.  Therefore,  $\max \{ \sup A, \sup B \}$ is an upper bound of $A \cup B$.

To prove that $\max \{ \sup A, \sup B \}$ is the supremum of $A \cup B$, we must use the definition of supremum. 

From the previous argument, $\max \{ \sup A, \sup B \} \geq x$, for all $ x \in A \cup B$.
Now, consider the element $\max \{ \sup A, \sup B \} = \sup A$. Then there exists $\varepsilon \leq \sup (A)$ for all $a \in A \cup B$.  Thus, $\sup (A)$ is not an upper bound.  We have already established that 
$\sup B \geq \sup B \gt b$ for all $b \in B$.
Therefore by definition, since $a \in A \cup B$, $\sup A$ is the $\sup (A \cup B)$.

This argument can be repeated by switching $A$ and $B$. 

Therefore, $\sup (A\cup B) = \max \{ \sup A, \sup B \}$.

_Hence proved_. 
