## Theorem: Let \( A, B \subset \mathbb{R} \) be nonempty sets that are bounded above. Then prove that \( A \cup B \) is nonempty and bounded above, and
\[
\sup (A \cup B)=\max \{\sup A, \sup B\}
\]


## Proof: e.g., $1 \in B$, $1 \in B$
But then $b \in A \cup B$. Thus $1 \in A \cup B$ s.t. $b > z$.
Hence $z$ is not an upper bound, and hence not a supremum of $A \cup B$.

[Let $a \in A$. Thus $a \in A \cup B$ s.t. $a > z$. Hence $z$ is an upper bound, & thus not a supremum] of $A \cup B$.

Thus is a contradiction. Thus $z \ngtr \max \{p, q\}$.
So from (1) & (2), $z = \max \{p, q\}$.
i.e., $\sup (A \cup B) = \max \{\sup A, \sup B\}$.

Ans: As $A$, $B$ are non-empty, $A \cup B$ is also non-empty.
Let $\sup A = m$, $\sup B = n$
$\implies a \leq m \ \forall a \in A$ and $b \leq n \ \forall b \in B$

$A \cup B = \{x; x \in A \text{ or } x \in B\}$, we have 3 cases
For $x \in A \cup B$, we have 3 cases
if $x \in A$ only, $x \leq m \leq \max \{m, n\}$
if $x \in B$ only, $n \leq n \leq \max \{m, n\}$
if $x \in A$ and $x \in B$, $n \leq \min \{m, n\} \leq \max \{m, n\}$

Hence, from the above argument, we can say that $A \cup B$ is bounded above and $k = \max \{m, n\}$ is an upper bound.

---

Let $1 \in B$. But then $b \in A \cup B$. Thus $1 \in A \cup B$ such that $b > z$. Hence $z$ is not an upper bound, and hence not a supremum of $A \cup B$.

Let $a \in A$. Thus $a \in A \cup B$ such that $a > z$. Hence $z$ is an upper bound, and thus not a supremum of $A \cup B$. Thus is a contradiction. Thus $z \ngtr \max \{p, q\}$.

So from (1) & (2), $z = \max \{p, q\}$. That is, $\sup (A \cup B) = \max \{\sup A, \sup B\}$.

Answer: As $A$ and $B$ are non-empty, $A \cup B$ is also non-empty. Let $\sup A = m$, and $\sup B = n$. This implies that $a \leq m$ for all $a \in A$ and $b \leq n$ for all $b \in B$. 

We have that $A \cup B = \{x: x \in A \text{ or } x \in B\}$. For $x \in A \cup B$, we have three cases. If $x \in A$, then  $x \leq m \leq \max \{m, n\}$. If $x \in B$, then  $x \leq n \leq \max \{m, n\}$. Finally, if $x \in A$ and $x \in B$, then $n \leq \min \{m, n\} \leq \max \{m, n\}$.

Hence, from the above argument, we can say that $A \cup B$ is bounded above and $k = \max \{m, n\}$ is an upper bound. 
